Well-Being and Efficiency

Systems and why they Matter

Trials and Errors
------------------------------


Trials and Errors.

I've been gifted with a brain that's working well enough to resolve all the situations I've been
through so far, and have grown up in a place, at a time where I never had to 
struggle to have access to basic needs. 
This is a privilege, but it does come with a set of problematics. 

One of those problematics, is that I never had to face real challenges. I never practiced any 
sports in a meaninful manner, and both pre and post college 'challenges' rarely had me used,
if I have to take a look with more wisdom now, more than 60% of my capacities of both focus and
effort. I never struggled to get a job, and anywhere I ever traveled to and stayed, were places 
that I had decided I would go to. 

This lack of challenges made me vagabond through life without any specific 'thing',
you know, this 'thing' that you're supposed dedicate your life to, just like some people
know from a very young age, that they want their lives to be around animals.

Me, I know I wanted to speak different languages, but apart from that, what the hell was
I supposed to be doing with my life? What were people going to want to hire me for? 
And don't get me wrong, I'm not too bad at learning and using languages, but apart from 
being a translator,for which you need to choose a specific area, which I had no clue what 
that would have been for me, what else could I be doing?
Teaching? No way. Not for me, I don't think I have any life experience that would be worth enough
to teach anyone. 

Marketing?
Mmh.
Seems like there would more options for me to use languages.
Travel, and work for different kinds of companies.
Why not.
Marketing it is, then.

It was interesting, but it was not what I was expecting from college.
One thing that, to this day I do remember and sometimes helps me, is noticing the 
degrees and differences of interest that each of my teachers had for their
subject(s). And also, how the activity and experiences of teaching this subject had influenced
that passion for it, when there was any to begin with. 
The level of interest each of them displayed and that I was able to receive depending on how good
they were at communicating it to others, was quite often relatively proportionate to the level of 
interest that I ended up feeling for the topic itself.
This entire 'thing' that I kept noticing didn't really form as a concrete thought until recently, 
when I finally started questionning this void that I kept feeling but never addressing:
    Why don't I feel any real interest to do anything ?
    I don't feel depressed.
    But I never feel like : 
        "Yes, it is decided, I will dedicate my life to fixing cars and dealing with cars
        because when I am studying how the engine works and how to choose the best engine for the 
        frame, I am in the zone." I never felt anything was bringing me to "the zone". This place where time doesn't exist
        because you're somehow filling your spot just as perfectly as the universal scheme of existence
        had decided it to be, and everything is aligned for you to produce something that may bring
        humanity closer to a major experience, closer to realising our potential as human beings. 
    How can I fix that? How can I find my zone?

Some would say, "my zone found me more than I found it". 
But others would say that 'the definition of luck, is when preparedness meets opportunity'.

I tried, several times, and several times I thought I had found this zone.
But the truth is, I wasn't really able to find it, or accept it, until I was able to ask myself
certain questions.
Questions like, what kind of person do I want to be?
How can I fairly assess my potential level to help in bringing the world closer to a better place?
Or should I say, what's my IQ, what are my inclinations and how can I use this mix of things that I am
in order to not waste my life and as much as possible, to give it some kind of meaning that would make 
me, and others, feel good in a fair way that would help us move forward as a group?
But mostly... what am I interested in? 

Trying is good. Intent is great. Failing is ok. But nothing really last for real if I didn't take the
time to learn from each experience. Learn intelectually, but also grow emotionally as an adult, leaving
the comfort of where and how I grew up. And as every human, I had to be faced with specific situations
that made me grow up.

Those situations made me slowly understand through experience, that interest doesn't have to be something you
are naturally born with.
I had heard it before, but never trully felt it.
Interest can also be something that you start feeling once you get familiar with something.
The same way that we don't actually fall in love, but grow in it, as we get to know people.

As life circumstances pushed me in directions that were nowhere near my medium-term plans,
I had to recalculate my options and make choices I had mental reticence to accept making in the past. 

And somewhere along the way, I grew interest. 

I found some people who think like me, and that doesn't happen very often.
I found that there are programs that were built on ways of thinking that I had never heard anybody
talk about, or not to me anyway, I had never been exposed to them at the point in my life where it would 
have resonnated with what I was experiencing, but that I could relate to in a deep, wordless way. 

I found <link>systems</link> explained in a way that made sense to me, and that made me 
voluntarily spend time learning more about them. 
Thing that I would very very very rarely do... probably hadn't consciously done so since
college. 

====================-------------------------

systems

I've started understanding the importance of systems after several reads and listens of 
people versed and experienced in various areas, from fitness, to food, to education, to 
brain and social sciences.
We need systems.
Most human beings can't tolerate the idea that there's no fairness in life.
Life itself, just is. Life is, that's it. There's no grand scheme with evil and angels and plots 
from an old telenovela, life is life, without any idea of fairness woven into it. And that is threatening
to most of us, because that brings us to the existential "but then, what am I?". Is there any reason
for us to exist?
Don't we all feel an innate, very deeply rooted notion of fairness? From the sandlot to our old years, 
we all know when something is fair, and when it's not. That is how most of us define their first principles
and guide their actions according to those principles; that's also why most people need religion, because 
a majority of people, if not all of us, can relate to some extent to the principles defined in most religions.

So, if there's no fairness in life, what should we do?
Well, we have several options:

0. I can't stand the though of it and kill myself.

1. Regardless of how I feel about that, I do not kill myself
    1.1 This doesn't affect me at all, I'm going back to living my life according to my first principles
        == not me.
    1.2 It affects me but for X reason and type of reason, I follow 


The way that I just deconstructed the idea of how fairness in life doesn't exist would affect me,
is the way that programmer use to build functions, and programs, and softwares, and that we have
used to develop technologies for a long time.
It took me enough exposure to coding smart contracts and understanding the blockchain system and
the first principles that it lies on to adhere to it.


***why blockchain***

I have been deceived, we all have.
It has been shown several times of the past decades, but much, much more openly since this whole covid
started, that governments very rarely act with the wellness of the people in mind. If they are
supposed to be the ones in charge because we elected them, aren't they supposed to have our best
interest at heart?
How many times do people need to be shown that a system does not work, in order to proceed to Trying
another system. give it a try, evaluate, and decide whether it works out or not, and act upon those findinds.

What I like about the idea of coding for the blockchain, are the following points:
    - Coding is the ability to use a system of languages to create transcription mechanisms 
    for a user input to communicate with a physical device and a software, but the physical device only takes 
    one of either inputs: ON, or OFF. Keeping this in mind helps me build a more efficient code and 
    keeping things grounded. The series of actions and code that need to happen from the
    instant the user inputs (or just gets closer to the device, as some phones have proven to
    display that ability) something, and the moment the software starts the series of code that will
    allow the user to receive the output expected

    - Coding doesn't allow for mistakes, and having a very focused attention to details
    is as important as seeing the big picture. It's as important to not miss a coma or a bracket
    as it is impostant to understand contracts' structures to build a code that is based on a 
    specific logic that can be shared and understood.

    - The idea of the blockchain, is that any smart contract deployed to a blockchain like Ethereum,
    their code can be seen by anyone with the address of the smart contract deployed, and because the
    storage of such code is on a series of nodes rather than one single server, it is called decentralized
    That allows for a very easily obtained traceability, transparency and reliability.

    - Gearing toward a system that allows traceability in a decentralized way means that less manipulations
    and lies will be able to happen, as everyone will have access to the code that made X or Y transaction happen
    and the logic that was used to make it happen.

    - Traceabiity and transparency, for me, means that I have even more positive pressure 
    to do my best to produce a code of quality which will take into account all the 
    relevant aspects of interacting with a blockchain system. 
    
    - Decentralized and transparent systems imply a notion of reponsibility and ownership for ones' choices
    And I believe this is a notion that more people should take some time to think of.

    - If we all move, as an entire species, toward a series of decentralized systems that will only be
    getting better as time goes on, as we are only at the beginning of this technology, then I want to be part  
    of people who are able to participate this new system

    - the first idea of Bitcoin and decentralization was to find an alternative to the 
    centralized systems that have been in place for centuries in a majority of modern day societies
    I also think that the current system is failing to show positive results and too much damage has been done
    that I am willing to give my trust and energy to the expansion of an alternative system,hopefully 
    for the best 